# Clinical-Records-Analysis

In order to identify the characteristics that might raise the risk of death following heart failure throughout the follow-up period, I used MATLAB to evaluate the outcomes of patients with heart failure who were between the ages of 60 and 65 for this study. 299 patients participated in this research study, of whom 105 were female and 194 were male. 96 of the individuals in total were smokers. Unfortunately, this study's distressing findings showed that 96 of the individuals had passed away during the follow-up period.

Different sorts of charts were utilized to show how each attribute related to the others. How many patients had Ejection Ages that were below optimal are shown in the first histogram. The number of patients with low sodium levels is then displayed in a second histogram. The majority of individuals were found to have normal levels of creatinine phosphokinase (CPK). I compared attributes to one another after utilizing several chart formats to look for trends and comparisons. There were differences between the correlations between smoking and serum sodium and smoking and Ejection age. The mentioned attributes were additionally examined for other trends and relationships.
We constructed used built in functions to in MATLAB to reprocess the data and search for patterns, trends and comparisons among the given categories. 
This project's major goals were to learn more about data analysis, gain experience doing it, and inspire the use of machine learning in the medical and healthcare sectors.

After doing thorough data analysis of the “Heart failure clinical records Data Set”, I was able to find relationships between different internal and external health factors of the patients that can cause heart failure. The internal health factors include ejection fraction, serum sodium, serum creatinine, creatinine phosphokinase and platelets. The external factors include smoking, time (follow up period-days) and whether the patient is deceased or not.
To begin with the analysis, I analyzed the age of the patients. Using MATLAB, and specifically the built in histogram function we found out that the patients between the age of 60-65 had the most cases of heart failure. With this, one can say that people of higher age, more specifically of age between 60-70 are more likely to suffer from heart failure. Moving forward, analyzing whether smoking is a factor of heart failure, among the 299 patients only 96 were smokers, which means only 32% of the patients smoked. Since 32% is not a very big percentage, I observed that smoking was a minor factor towards heart failure.

After that, I looked at the patients' gender. In the statistics given, there were 105 female patients and 194 male patients, or roughly 65% male and 35% female patients. Males are noticeably more likely than females to experience heart failure, according to this data, but I didn't work with a lot of data to reach that conclusion. I then made the decision to assess the number of fatalities that occurred throughout the follow-up period. I discovered that just 32%—96 patients—died throughout the follow-up period. This led me to the conclusion that while the mortality rate for heart failure is not particularly high, it is also not very low either. 

I next started to examine the internal health factors, starting with the ejection fraction. For humans, an optimal ejection fraction is between 55% and 75%. The data analysis revealed that the patients' ejection percentage was noticeably low and outside of the usual range. I can infer that heart failure reduces patients' ejection fraction because more than 50% of the patients had ejection fractions that were below the optimum range. My analysis also included serum sodium. A person's serum sodium level should be between 135 and 145 mEq/L. The majority of the patients in the data had normal serum sodium levels, proving that heart failure had no effect on patients' serum sodium levels. 

In the same way, I analyzed creatinine phosphokinase levels of the patients. On average the normal creatinine phosphokinase levels are 10-120 mcg/L. I found out that about 57% of the patients had extremely high creatinine phosphokinase levels. With this analysis I can conclude that heart failure patients are likely to see an increase in creatinine phosphokinase levels. Lastly, I decided to look at the platelets of the patients. Since most of the patients had normal platelets levels, I can conclude that heart failure does not affect the platelets level of the patients.

My analysis of the number of days that passed after the patients' heart failure symptoms allowed me to discover some unexpected findings. The majority of patients died within the first 60 to 70 days of their heart failure, and many of those who lived past 60 days. Therefore, if correct care is not given within the first 70 days of heart failure, the patient has a very high risk of dying. Finally, I looked at whether patients with abnormally low ejection fractions brought on by heart failure may pass away. I discovered from the study that low ejection fraction values were associated with patient deaths. The study also revealed that a patient with low levels of ejection fraction is more likely to die. 
